
AT THE BOTTOM OF THE WINDOW:

"Generate" button
This begins the process of creating a new map. It could succeed immediately, or fail a number of times, or fail continuously, depending on the settings. Each attempt could take any amount of time from one second to a few minutes. Bigger maps take longer.
The progress will be displayed to the right of the "Stop" button, and will report errors or problems.

"Stop" button
Ends the map generation re-tries.

ON THE LEFT OF THE WINDOW:

"Symmetry" drop down list
Select what sort of symmetry you want.

"Width" text box
The horizontal size of the map, in tiles.
The minimum is 48 and the maximum is 250.

"Height" text box
The vertical size of the map, in tiles.
The minimum is 48 and the maximum is 250.

Base Positions
Click one of the circles to select how many players you want.
If you are using symmetry, bases are reflected from the top/left corner of the map. As a result, the number of players on the map is multiplied by the number of reflections of the symmety. In other words, with no symmetry there will be the same amount of players, with any horizontal or vertical symmetry the number of players will double, and with quarters symmetry the number of players will be multiplied by 4.
The text boxes to the right of each player contain the horizontal and vertical positions of the bases.
The top left corner of the map is zero. It is measured in tiles.
If you enter coordinates that are too close to the edge of the map, they will automatically be changed when you click "Generate".
With symmetry, the maximum base position is half of the map in the directions of symmetry, so bases must be in the top/left corner.

"Tileset" drop down list
Selects what textures and features appear on the map.

"Height Levels" text box
This is the amount of different heights at which there will be level ground.
The minimum is 3 and the maximum is 5.

"Base Height Level" text box
This is the height level that all players' bases will be at.
Enter -1 for random base heights for each player.

JUST BELOW THE MIDDLE:

The five text boxes on the left...
"Flatness"
"Passages"
"Variation"
"Random"
"Equalize Levels"
...are the chances of each behavior happening on each spot (approx 8x8 tiles).
You can enter anything from 0 to 100.
You must enter 1 or more into at least one of the boxes.

"Flatness" text box
Tries to make the map flatter.

"Passages" text box
Tries to make long thin passages.

"Variation" text box
Tries to make frequent changes in height.

"Random" text box
Does anything.

"Equalize Levels" text box
Tries to consume the same amount of space for each height level.

ON THE BOTTOM RIGHT OF THE WINDOW:

"Water Spawns" text box
This is the maximum number of seperate water bodies on the map.

"Total Water" text box
This is the maximum amount of 8x8 spots that will become water.

Ramp Distance
A ramp is placed on a cliff if the distance from one side of a cliff to the other is greater than the "ramp distance". The "ramp distance" is measure in tiles. The lower it is, the more slopes there will be.

"Ramp Distance At Base" text box
This is the "ramp distance" at each player base.

"Ramp Multiplier % Per 8" text box
This is a percentage that the "ramp distance" will be multiplied by each time the cliff is 8 tiles further away from a base. A value of 100 keeps the "ramp distance" the same over the whole map. Less than 100 will place more ramps away from bases. Greater than 100 will place less ramps away from bases.

"Flatten Bases" box
Ticking this box will make sure there are no cliffs around the bases.
If the "Base Height Level" is -1, avoid placing bases close to each other, or this wont have the right effect.

"Master Texturing" box
This decides whether it does a texturing job better suited to the Master or 2.3 version of Warzone.

JUST ABOVE THE MIDDLE:

"Oil In Base" text box
This is how much oil there will be in each player's base.

"Oil Elsewhere" text box
This is the amount of oil that will be anywhere on the map.

"Oil Cluster Size" text boxes
This is how many oil resources will be placed at any one spot.
It will place any random number from the "Min" number to the "Max" number.

"Oil Dispersion" text box
Higher numbers here will encourage oil resources to spread out. Lower numbers will leave them close together.
This is needed because it tries to place oil resources fairly, and the best spot for that is in the middle of all the players.
It has no effect on symmetrical maps where only one base is positioned.

"Oil Clusters At A Time"
This is the number of oil clusters that are placed at once. The only valid entries are 1 and 2. A value of 2 will cause oil to spread out more, without becoming more uneven, reducing the need for "Oil Dispersion". 2 is slower than 1. The maximum is 2 because this option is very exponentially slow.

ON THE TOP RIGHT OF THE WINDOW:

"Scattered Features" text box
This is how many features will be scattered around the map in random places. If there is not enough space it will fail.
If the Arizona tileset is selected it will place boulders.
If the Urban tileset is selected it will place skyscrapers, and will need more space per feature.
If the Rockies tileset is selected it will place trees.

"Feature Cluster Chance %" text box
This is the chance, from 0 to 100, of placing a group of features on each approx 8x8 tile spot.
This always places huts, or nothing on the Urban tileset.

"Feature Cluster Size" text boxes
This is how many features will be placed in each "cluster". It will be a random number from the "Min" number to the "Max" number.

"Base Trucks" text box
This is how many Trucks will be placed in each player's base.
