
"Terrain Painter" tab
---------------------

The textures will only be set correctly with certain combinations of painted things. This is because there is a fixed set of textures (as seen on the "Textures" tab) and not every transition exists. If you paint something on the map that this program doesn't know how to deal with, you will often see an invalid tile. If you compile a map with invalid tiles on it, they will be set to the first texture in the tileset, which is probably not something you want.

Ground Type
To see where you have painted a "Ground Type", look for the "Display Painted Texture Markers" button on the toolbar above the view of the map.

Road Type
When painting a "Road Type", it will only work if you have the correct "Ground Type" painted beneath it, as follows:
Arizona: Red
Urban: any except Water for unbroken road, or Green, Blue, Gray for dead ends
Rocky Mountains: Dirt

Cliffs
Like roads, cliffs need a ground type as follows:
Arizona: Red
Urban: Gray
Rocky Mountains: Gravel, Gravel Snow, Snow

Entire Map Painter
This is a tool for very lazy people.

Triangles
---------

If you press F6 you will see a grid. Each square has a diagonal line dividing the square into two triangles. The direction of the diagonal can be changed, and affects the visual shape of the tile.
The "Set Tris" option of the "Cliff Brush" automatically sets these to what I think is the best looking direction, wherever you paint cliffs. On the "Misc" tab, the "Set All Triangles" button does this for the entire map.

Water Glitches
--------------

For water tiles, having the triangles set to one of the directions can cause graphical glitches in-game. On the "Misc" tab, the "Water Triangle Correction" button will fix it for all water tiles.

Reinterpret Terrain
-------------------

This does the reverse of what the painting tools do. It uses what textures are already on the map, to estimate what ground, road and cliff types they represent. It's useful when a map has none of this information already on it, such as when loading a .wz or .lnd file.

Resize
------

The offset text boxes represent where the newly resized map will begin. You can enter negative numbers to extend the top and left sides of the map.

Objects
-------

Particular objects will only work with particular versions of the game.

Features
Particular features will only work with particular tilesets. The player number of features has no affect on who owns them in-game. If you are intending to NOT use "X Player Support" when compiling, features should be placed on player number 7 or lower. With "X Player Support" it makes no difference.

Object Properties
-----------------

Rotation
The space a structure or feature takes up doesn't rotate with the object. Many of them should not be rotated. Straight walls should only be rotated to 0 or 90 degrees. Cranes are an example of one that can be rotated.

ID
This is a unique number for the unit. It is only needed in campaign scripts.

Priority
Depending on what level of bases the user chooses to play on, some or all of your players' base structures will be removed. The structures with the lowest priority will be removed last. You can enter negative numbers.

Selection toolbar
-----------------

The "Copy Selection" button makes a copy of the selected area in your computer's memory. The rotation/flip buttons will perform actions on the stored part of the map, and the effect will not be visible until you paste the selection back onto the map.

Rotation
When rotating a copied selection to 90 degrees, non-square objects, such as a cyborg factory, will become wrongly aligned on the map, and should be moved again manually.

Gateways
--------

The blocky "G" button on the toolbar above the map view displays and allows you to edit gateways by clicking on the map.

Scavengers
----------

If you put scavengers on your map, they must go in the correct player slot. For maps with 7 or less players, they go in slot number 7. For maps with 8 or more players, they go in the slot after the last used player.

"File"->"Compile Map..."
------------------------

Scroll Limits
These must be entered for any map. They control the area of the map that is supposed to be usable. Usually the minimums are 0 and the maximums are the sizes of the map.

Multiplayer
Ticking the "X Player Support" box creates a map that can have 3,5,6,7,9,10 players, but will only work in 3.0+/master versions of the game. If you don't tick this box, you can only have maps with 2,4,8 players. You can't have scavengers on an 8 player map without ticking this box.
A compressed .wz file is produced. It can be opened like any zip file.

"Options"->
-----------

"Undo Limit..."
Changes to the map are stored in memory to allow you to undo/redo them. Reducing this number might help this program to use less RAM.

"Autosave"->
By default, your maps will be saved to a unique backup file when you have both made 20 changes and it was 3 minutes since the last autosave. Use these options to change your preferences.

"Display"->"Font"
No text is displayed in the program until you select a font here.

